Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, it's a pleasure for me to report on a substantial
number of new public works projects for East, Middle and West Tennessee.
These projects were recommended by the President and his annual budget requests for the new fiscal
year beginning next July.
As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, we will have an opportunity to pass on the money,
which will be required to bring these projects about, and of course money has to be appropriated
for them to become a reality.
Well last year, a tragic situation developed for one of our Tennessee veterans.
This disabled veteran was so sick he was unable to travel from Memphis to Nashville or his
annual check-up as is required by the Veterans Administration.
As a result, his monthly pension allotment was threatened to be cut off.
An investigation showed that all West Tennessee disabled veterans was traveled to Nashville
because facilities are lacking at the Kennedy General Hospital at Memphis.
I talked with Veterans Administration Sumner-Hoodier last autumn and was assured by him that funds
would be sought by the Veterans Administration for the construction of an outpatient clinic
at Kennedy General.
And I'm happy to report that this promise has been kept.
The President and his budget request asked for $137,000.
Be satisfied for construction of such a clinic.
I know many hundreds of disabled veterans who live in West Tennessee will welcome this news.
The same is all citizens who honor those who fought in defense of their country.
The tourist industry, as we all know, has become a multi-million dollar annual business in
Tennessee.
Each year, the number of tourists increases, thus providing employment for many of our people
and spreading the fame of our state to all corners of the world.
But like all businesses, the customer must be satisfied.
The President has asked Congress to appropriate more than $6 million for improvement in the
Great Smoky Mountain National Park and the foothills Parkway.
The largest item was $1,900,000 for completion of the long-needed 4 1-3 mile Gatlinburg
bypass.
Construction of the Meldon Hill Dam on the clinch revereneer Clinton and Oak Ridge will
begin this year as a result of another request.
The project has been sought as a means of creating new generating capacity in our Great Tennessee
Valley, adding to flood control and navigation up to Clinton and Great Recurational Value.
The President recommended an initial $4,000,000,000 for initial construction work.
Hundreds of new jobs will us be made available in that area.
When completed, more good TVA power for industrial expansion and other purposes will be provided.
In the West Tennessee area, more than $17 million has been requested for construction of
Parkway Dam.
Although located in Kentucky, impounded waters of Parkway Dam will back up into Tennessee
and provide miles of recreational shoreline and flood control and navigation.
And also will offer employment to many Tennesseeans who live in that vicinity.
The Corps of Engineers has also asked for more than $2 million for operation and maintenance
along the Cumberland River and its tributaries in middle Tennessee.
Another approximately $1 million is sought for the operation of locks and maintenance of
dams along the Tennessee River.
These requests showed in our trust will receive approval by Congress.
The President's request included $13,600,000 for construction start of Memphis's new federal
building and $133,000 for site and planning of a federal building at Dazbury.
This was indeed welcome news as was $500,000 for the Wolf River which has run much Shelby
County farmland for years and years.
In addition, the river has been sometimes a smelly nuisance and its sluggish summer wanderings
through downtown Memphis.
All of us will be glad when a new channel for the Wolf has eliminated the flood threat and
a verdict of its waters.
Summing up public works projects for the state are I think they are bright for the coming
year.
It will be my pleasure to report to you on the progress that has been made as they come
before the House Appropriations Committee and before the Senate Appropriations Committee
of which I have the privilege of being a member.
Until next week at this time, thank you very much.